when I was at school I wasn't taught
anything about black soldiers in World
War one
I had a faint idea that they might have
been involved but I didn't know the
extent to which I definitely think
awareness needs to be brought to it so
people can acknowledge a lot of people
from British colonies for and gave their
lives to exact same thing that many
British ancestors gave their life for
black subjects had their actions during
the war written out of history this is
the story of whitewashing history the
old history you don't learn at school
[Music]
we're constantly reminded of the
sacrifices of young British white men
yet more than 4 million non-european and
non-white soldiers and auxiliaries
participated in the war
this included 1.5 million from British
India more than 2 million from French
colonies in Africa and Indochina 400
thousand African Americans 100,000
Chinese laborers million people like
black people contributed as crazy like
even just last year we had the hunger
anniversary of them first of all to one
and even then I didn't hear anything
about it the people I always saw when we
talk about what were one or two we're
always just strangely very happy
European people at the army front
looking like they're having a great time
winning the war but nothing really
engaging about the kind of rifts that
may have happened between black and
white soldiers and understanding how at
she was 1919 Britain had won the war a
victory parade commenced through London
despite more than 1 million black
individuals fighting in the war they
cannot be seen taking part in the
celebrations their participation has
been largely ignored and overlooked the
army claimed they could not afford to
transport foreign soldiers to London for
the celebrations but the reasons run
much deeper than lists many within the
ruling elite had big concerns about
disturbing the racial hierarchy and
damaging white supremacy
this was the era of the British Empire
and people believed in racial fairies
one of the most popular argued the
different races were competing for
survival in their minds it was survival
of the fittest in India the British
favored martial races they stereotyped
ethnic groups some were seen as a
feminist Sikhs were seen as the perfect
martial people tall and strong and
physically imposing they were seen as
worthy to partake in the victory March
of July 1919 they reviewed as a race
with a higher status than African or
Caribbean troops it's just a habit to
completely erase who is being exploited
there's this kintyre network of support
that the West kind of leaned on and
Exploited when I was younger I always
used to wonder why is it called World
War
if you can't see any element of world
and the diversity that's in the world
negative stereotyping was rife on both
sides of the war these ideas were not
restricted to Britain the same ethnic
stereotyping was taking place in Germany
too but there a few people had ever met
a black soldier instead racism was used
to attack black soldiers in the British
or French armies a pamphlet was
published called the employment contrary
to international law of Colored Troops
upon the European theater of war by
England and France the pamphlet
suggested colonial soldiers conducted
terrible acts of brutality including
cutting body parts off of German
soldiers colored troops carried war
trophies the severed heads and fingers
of German soldiers wore ears which they
have cut off as ornaments about their
necks I distinctly recognized their dark
complexion their red turbans and white
trousers I mean
what does that mean that could be anyone
yet when Germans were captured by
colonial troops they were amazed to find
that they weren't brutally murdered and
were in fact treated rather well but as
we know this was not purely a German
phenomenon similar sentiments were held
and disseminated in Britain in Britain
journalist Edie Morrell wrote for the
Daily Herald France was thrusting her
black savages still further into the
heart of Germany by giving black and
brown people the opportunity to fight to
kill white men they were in the eyes of
racial theorist disrupting the world
order funny just looking at these
pictures how they go to such great
lengths to make us look like these crazy
people with these huge limbs it seems
like we're taller than every other
person like we're this huge ones that
come in to attack them you don't even
have to read German to know what this
pictures is about trying to convey just
like all the features like the
caricature itself is just really really
negative really really really awful
black soldiers and sailors had
contributed to the war they had given
their lives to fight for crown country
and the Commonwealth that didn't fit the
image imperialists had for them in
school the world wars are probably the
most taught things in history when I
think world wars I just think you're in
America and maybe you're sure well it's
crazy to think that so many people
contributed and their country has never
been acknowledged history needs to be
more accurately rewritten to ensure that
the contribution of over 1 million black
servicemen is remembered and isn't lost
[Music]